:date: 2012-10-16 23:30
:author: Samuel Sidler

Personally, I prefer custom statuses, instead of a set of predefined ones,
but...

I think you underestimate the importance of each status. While I don't use them
all, they all have a fairly set meaning to a lot of people. For example, while
"Away" might be a good status for when you have stepped away from your desk for
a set amount of time (5 or 10 minutes?), other statuses give me a general
timeframe when the person might be back.

Someone idle with a status of "Be Right Back" makes me think they'll be back in
5-10 minutes at most. Someone with "Out to lunch" might mean an hour or two, but
I'm fairly confident I'll get a reply. Meanwhile "Busy" means my message might
get ignored.

Those are all very different statuses to most people, but yet all cover
"Unavailable" for you.

You also mention that setting yourself as "away" or "invisible" is a lie. Maybe
"away" is a lie, but invisible isn't really. Being invisible has its purposes. I
often go invisible when I'm waiting for one person to get online, but don't want
to be bothered by everyone else. Yes, I can ignore everyone, but getting those
"You're not idle, I know you're there, why are you ignoring me?" messages isn't
fun (of course, less likely to get those in a business environment).

Personally, I use invisible less and less now because Adium supports setting my
unavailable status and adding an idle time. So to most people I might show as
away and idle for 1 hour as soon as I don't want to be bothered. But again, I
might want to talk to one or two people if they sign on.

In any case, I think this post is incredibly one-sided and kind of short-sighted
as far as how others use chat clients. Maybe that word is idealistic as you
said.
