:date: 2012-10-17 09:59
:author: Patrick Cloke
:website: http://patrick.cloke.us
:replyto: 0

Thanks for the feedback Samuel. I think part of your comments can be explained
by a terminology mismatch. When I refer to "Status" I am NOT referring to the
"Status Message", I mean simply the Status as set by the protocol (the little
green/red/grey dot in Instantbird, I'm unsure what Adium uses for this).

I agree with you that information such as "Be Right Back" or "At Lunch" is
important, but my point is that this does not need to be a separate Status; it
can be explained easily in the (free text style) Status Message. I believe this
is a more flexible and powerful way to deal with these instead of having a
different Status for each. This could get kind of ridiculous, e.g. why is there
only an "Out to lunch" one, why not an "Eating breakfast" or "Eating dinner"
one? Well, let's make it more vague and just say "Eating" for all three, but
that sounds kind of silly...this really can just be part of the "Status
Message". (It probably does make sense to have some preset/common Status
Messages, but that's not what this post is about.)

Invisible is a lie, it let's you pretend you're not signed into a network when
you really are. I don't think I've ever signed in when waiting for a single
person to get on, but if I was I'd just put up I'm unavailable. If people are
still sending messages ("You're not idle..."), then that's certainly an
issue...but I think your client should be able to handle that for you. I use Do
Not Disturb for Instantbird which automatically puts any new conversation while
Unavailable into my conversations on hold (open conversations work as normal).
This idea could be extended to allow IMs only from a certain person (e.g. people
who know I'm really available during work hours know that they can IM me, even
though it says not available). I think there's a benefit to this as well...you
don't need to wait for them to come on and keep checking, once they're online
they can IM you at their leisure. Setting yourself to invisible is also
detrimental to the IM network you use, but that's probably a point most people
don't care about.

Of course it is one-sided, it is based off how I have used instant messaging
over the past 15 years. Your mileage may vary. In terms of being
short-sighted...I think half of your comments come from a misunderstanding of
terminology. I'm still not convinced, however, that being able to be "Invisible"
is a good thing, see below:

Your comment ignores the technical ramifications of allowing "Invisible". For
example, I talk to the same people on multiple protocols. Some of those
protocols don't support the "Invisibility" status, therefore when I set myself
as Invisible, the following occurs:

1. I'm online on protocol foo.
2. I'm not online on protocol bar.
3. My buddies know that I'm set to invisible since I'm not on protocol bar.
4. I didn't IM them so I must not want them to know I'm online.
5. Queue the whining.

Additionally (I didn't initially cover this in the post) protocol
implementations of Invisible are also...rough around the edges, we shall say.
Sending a message to an AIM user who is offline usually returns a message saying
they'll receive it when they sign on...but if they're invisible...no message is
returned. Voila you just broke the supposed "privacy" of being "Invisible" (at
the cost of being annoying and sending lots of offline messages when they are
really offline). It's just broken and doesn't work well.

Anyway, thanks for your thoughts. It is fascinating to see how different people
use instant messaging (and more proof there's no such thing as the mythical
"general user").
