:date: 2012-10-18 06:43
:author: Samuel Sidler
:replyto: 2rst

Patrick, you're right. Probably half of my comments are misunderstanding and
apologies for that. I was thinking of "status message" not of status. I didn't
realize you were saying these are pre-programmed statuses. But what Florian said
below rings true. Most of those with the pre-programmed statuses are from
protocols that didn't have status messages to start.

I still think that invisible is an important status and I imagine a lot of other
people do too. The scenario I gave is just my personal one. The simple
explanation for invisible is "privacy" and different people have different
scenarios.

As far as technical ramifications... Some IM clients (like the new "Messages"
app on Mac OS X 10.8) allow you to set per-protocol, per-account statuses. So I
can be logged into yahooaccount1 and yahooaccount2, but only invisible on
yahooaccount1. Perhaps any client that implements the invisible status could
show what accounts are set as invisible and what accounts are still set to the
previous status, when you change the client-wide status to "invisible." But
clients could also show that no invisible status existed for individual clients,
when attempting to change their statuses (list only the available statuses and
not list "invisible" at all).

You're right about how some protocols act with regards to being offline vs
invisible. But just because one or two protocols don't handle it well doesn't
mean it shouldn't be implemented as best as possible for all protocols...
